I wanted to create a graphic consisting of a circle divided precisely into three segments of equal size. 

I chose SVG to do this, and I wanted to learn how some of the basic drawing commands native to SVG. 

Drawing graphics with SVG is quite straightforward.

Rather like the HTML5 canvas element, the SVG tag requires a height and width properties with numerical values to set the drawing area.

In the example below, I set the SVG area to 400 x 400.

The circle requires an (x,y) origin, or centre point, specified as cx and cy coordinates, with a numerical value for each. It also requires a radius (r) with a numerical value.

As I want my circle to use the maximum size of the SVG area, I set the x,y origin of the circle to 200,200. And I set the radius to 200. 

To make my circle easy to see, I set the fill colour, using a hexadecimal value: fill=&quot;#6a29ea&quot;

So far, the result is this:

<svg height="400" width="400">
  <circle cx="200" cy="200" r="200" stroke="black" stroke-width="0" fill="#6a29ea" />
  Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG.  
</svg> 

But then I want to divide my circle into three equal segments, using three lines to mark the divisions. 

Drawing a line is easy enough: we specify the start point coordinates as x1,y1 and the end point coordinates as x2,y2 , and supply the values we need. 

I know that each line has to begin at the centre of the circle, which is 200,200. So my three lines each begin with:&nbsp; <code> x1=&quot;200&quot; y1=&quot;200&quot; </code>

Next I need to get the coordinates for the end point of each line. To get each end point, I need to make some cosine and sine calculations. The forumlas I need are:

End point coordinates of a line: 

<blockquote>
x = ((cosine x degree of angle) x radius) + radius
  
y = ((sine x degree of angle) x radius) + radius
</blockquote>

<strong>Explanation:</strong>

Whatever angle I choose for my line, I use cosine and sine to plot the final point x,y coordinates at the edge of the circle. However, the area of a computer screen or web page does not use standard Cartesian coordinates, so I have to compensate by adding the radius to the result of the sine/cosine computation.

To divide the circle (360 degrees) into three, I will divide the circle into 3 x 120 degrees. Whatever first angle I choose for my first line, I then add 120 to each subsequent calculation for the other two lines.

I want my first line to be vertical, so I use 90 degrees as my starting angle. 

To get x: ((cos90 * 200) + 200). This equals 200.

To get y: ((sin90 * 200) + 200). This equals 400.

So I know my x2,y2 coordinates are 200,400. 

So my first line entry is:  

<code> line x1=&quot;200&quot; y1=&quot;200&quot; x2=&quot;200&quot; y2=&quot;400&quot; style=&quot;stroke:rgb(255,255,255);stroke-width:6&quot; </code>

<svg height="400" width="400">
  <circle cx="200" cy="200" r="200" stroke="black" stroke-width="0" fill="#6a29ea" />
  <line x1="200" y1="200" x2="200" y2="400" style="stroke:rgb(255,255,255);stroke-width:6" />
  Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG.  
</svg> 

I then repeat this process twice more, using the angles of (90+120) = 210; and (210+120) =  330.

The result looks like this:

<svg height="400" width="400">
  <circle cx="200" cy="200" r="200" stroke="black" stroke-width="0" fill="#6a29ea" />
  <line x1="200" y1="200" x2="200" y2="400" style="stroke:rgb(255,255,255);stroke-width:6" />
  
  <line x1="200" y1="200" x2="27" y2="100" style="stroke:rgb(255,255,255);stroke-width:6" />
  
  <line x1="200" y1="200" x2="373" y2="100" style="stroke:rgb(255,255,255);stroke-width:6" />
  
  
  Sorry, your browser does not support inline SVG.  
</svg> 

<strong>Final words</strong>

Sine and Cosine calculations can be performed using JavaScript, and the values fed in as variables to SVG. 
