---
layout: post
title: PHP for Adaptive Language Testing
tags: [language tests, programming, coding, diagnostics]
---

A few years ago I was asked by our languages coordinator to 'digitise' some diagnostic language tests for students to assess their level of language knowledge prior to enrolment. 

**The task**

The basic remit of the task was that students should take a test and, depending on their score, be directed to enrol on a course designed for their target language level. Scores did not need to be stored for future access, and no student data needed to be collected.

I was provided with word documents consisting of tests for 5 languages; each test was divided into 5 sections of 10 questions; the questions were all three-item multiple choice (MCQs) with one correct answer; the 5 sections increased in order of difficulty, corresponding roughly to CEFR levels A1, A2, B1, B2, C1. 

**Test parameters**

There were two basic parameters for each test: 

- If a student scored less than 5/10 on a level, then they would be directed to the enrolment page for their designated level. 
- If they scored 5/10 or above, they would be directed to the next level, thereby progressing. The two parameters would then apply to the current level.

I decided to use PHP to accomplish this. PHP stands for 'PHP Hypertext Preprocessor' (a recursive acronym),  a server-side scripting language that is relatively easy to write.

**Programming logic**

- Each test consists of a page of questions for each section. 
- Each page sets a global Session <code>$_SESSION</code>variable that, on submission, is passed to the answer-checking PHP page.
- The questions for each section are stored in arrays, which are called into a <code>function</code> using a <code>foreach</code> loop structure to output the 10 questions to HTML radio button form fields. 
- A submit button calls a post method <code>method=post</code> to action a php file containing the correct answers. 
- The answers file contains the correct answers stored in arrays for each level. 
- The Session value is passed to a function, which:
  - loops through the answers array, 
  - compares each submitted answer with the stored correct answers
  - adds a score of 1 per each correct answer and passes the result to an <code>if ... else</code> control structure
  - depending on the score, a <code>switch</code> control prints an approprite response to the HTML page, informing the student of their score and directing to either the enrolment page or the next page of the test. 

Thus, a very simple form of computer-adaptive test was created for 5 different languages. You can try them yourself here:

[Chinese Diagnostic Test](http://qmlanguagecentre.on-rev.com/placement-tests/chinese/start.php)

[French Diagnostic Test](http://qmlanguagecentre.on-rev.com/placement-tests/french/start.php)

[German Diagnostic Test](http://qmlanguagecentre.on-rev.com/placement-tests/german/start.php)

[Japanese Diagnostic Test](http://qmlanguagecentre.on-rev.com/placement-tests/japanese/start.php)

[Spanish Diagnostic Test](http://qmlanguagecentre.on-rev.com/placement-tests/spanish/start.php)
